“We support Sri Lankan companies to make them IT enabled and have come on a long journey and now have over 1,000 employees in offices in Colombo and Kandy. We will build our capacity by interaction with universities.

We went for raw people and groomed and molded them to suit the software industry. We do 60 percent of development work,” IFS Sri Lanka President and CEO Jayantha de Silva said.

IFS provides software solutions to sectors such as tea, garment, retail and automotive. “We are not an outsourcing company. We develop IFS software,” he said. The key aim the IFS is to attract and retain top talent is Sri Lanka, he said.

IFS counts over 120 of Sri Lanka’s top companies as clients for its enterprise software.

These customers use IFS solutions to manufacture and distribute goods, maintain assets and manage service-focused operations. The industry experts of IFS and solutions with its commitment to customers, has made the company a recognized leader and most recommended supplier in the sector.

The IFS team in Sri Lanka has been the key to IFS’s global success, which per the company’s Q3 2017 financial results, shows year-to-date licence growth up 18 percent. Key global initiatives such as the IFS Academy (training and certification), IFS labs (innovation), global support centre as well as important aspects of product development.

“Consistent and stable growth has been the secret to our success around the world, which would not have been possible if IFS could not attract and retain top talent.

The importance of building the best team of industry experts is no more pronounced than in Sri Lanka, not only is Sri Lanka home to the largest number of IFS employees, but the local team is also key to the success of so many fundamental parts of our global business,” IFS CEO Alistair Sorbie said.

Fuelling our global growth from Sri Lanka has been one of the best decisions we have made, he said.

The company has grown from $ 20 million to become $440 million. There has been 16 percent revenue growth. We recently moved in to service industry.

The IFS is growing extremely well. We have doubled our revenue over the years, he said.

Sri Lanka has provided the IFS an enabling and effective environment to expand. We see market potential through acquisitions. We are investing in growth.

“We have significantly increased the number of people working with us. The key drivers of this has been the access to talent, we been a great place to work and we have a great product,” Sorbie said.

“The IFS is on niche vertical focus. As 10 percent of the exports are done by IT companies we see a great potential in this market. With current expansion plan, we will be expanding R&D operations further,” he said.
