The Ceylon Glass Company has begun a $20 million expansion drive to increase its global presence. Sri Lanka’s one and only manufacturer of glass bottles signed an agreement with the Board of Investment (BOI) last week to relocate to a new plant in Horana. The move will allow the glass bottle maker to double production, increase its export volumes and also enter the high-end designer market for wine containers.

“Initially 15–20 percent of production will be exported. Today exports are only about 5 percent. With the new facility we will focus on boutique wine bottles,” Vijay Shah, Managing Director of Gujarat Glass told journalists after the inking of agreements. Gujarat Glass currently owns 54 percent of the Ceylon Glass Company with the balance shares publicly owned. Construction on the new facility in Horana is expected to begin at once and the new plant is expected to be operational within one year.

The $20 million syndicated funding injection organised by the DFCC Bank will allow Ceylon Glass to increase production and upgrade its technology. The local bottle maker manufactures around 150–200 million glass bottles per year at the moment in different shapes and sizes. The new plant in Horana will increase production to over 300 million bottles.

The increased capacity will also allow the company to increase its production of specialised items, like higher priced coloured glass bottles. At the moment Ceylon Glass is the only glass manufacturer in Asia to have a colouring forehearth.

This means the Sri Lankan based bottle maker has an advantage over many others in Asia in being able to offer a wider range of choices to customers. The company is planning to use its more sophisticated colouring facilities to get a foothold in the global coloured wine bottle market and high end niche markets. “We are the only company in Asia that can do different shades of colour because we are the only glass manufacturer in Asia to have a colouring forehearth. With the new facility having more flexibility, we will target the niche, boutique wine bottle segment,” said Sanjay Tiwari, CEO of Ceylon Glass.

Boutique wine bottles are high value containers for the more expensive brands of wines and are designed for the exclusive use of these individual brands. At the moment a French company controls this entire market as a single supplier. Ceylon Glass’s entry into the field will make it the second global supplier for this exclusive segment of glass bottles.

The company is also hoping to increase its presence in the much larger market for standard wine bottles. The total world demand for wine bottles is around 120 billion bottles per year. The biggest suppliers are mainly European based companies but with its expansion plans Ceylon Glass says it can carve out a tiny slice of this market. “The world wine bottle market is huge. We will target only a very small share of it,” said Tiwari.

The company has already used its very limited existing export capacity to work out entry strategies into the international wine bottle market.

“Even now we export some coloured wine bottles and blue liquor bottles but production capacity is inadequate at present. But we have already explored export avenues to India, Bangladesh, Mauritius and Australia.

Australia alone is a market for 12 billion bottles per year and is 10 percent of the world market,” said Tiwari.

Ceylon Glass says it has many other items in its product portfolio that would help position it as a quality glass manufacturer for the world, from its current status of being the only glass bottle supplier for Sri Lanka.

“We will focus on expanding our presence in markets in Europe and the Asia Pacific region. We are already manufacturing a range of bottles for export. The new facility will ensure flexibility to meet varied customer requirements with reduced lead time and wider range and colour of bottles. We will expand exports to 15–20 percent of production in two years from the current 5 percent,” said Tiwari.
