This prestigious honour was given to Jetwing Blue, Jetwing St. Andrew’s, Jetwing Ayurveda Pavilions, Jetwing Lighthouse, Jetwing Beach, Jetwing Sea, Jetwing Lagoon, Jetwing Yala and Jetwing Vil Uyana. The International Organization for Standardization has a membership of 162 countries, with a portfolio of more than 21,000 standards giving world-class specifications for products, services and systems, to ensure quality, safety and efficiency.

ISO standards provide a model to follow when setting up and operating a management system. These standards are formulated and are a result of international, expert consensus which provides a number of benefits, such as, efficient use of resources, improved risk management, among others. The ISO 14064 standard published in 2006 is part of the ISO 14000 series of International Standards for Environmental Management. It specifies principles and requirements at organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and removals. It includes requirements for design, development, management, reporting and verification of an organization’s GHG inventory.

Certified by the Sri Lanka Climate Fund (SLCF), which is a private-public partnership company under the purview of the Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment, all direct emission sources and energy indirect sources have been accounted for in the GHG inventory across the nine properties making Jetwing Hotels the first to be verified under the ISO 14064 standard in Sri Lanka. One of the largest sources of global CO2 emissions is electricity production via fossil fuels, thus, in order to reduce the GHG emissions associated with the hotel’s operations, Jetwing Hotels has actively reduced its grid electricity consumption by both, reducing its energy demand via energy efficiency improvements and promoting non-fossil fuel based (renewable) energy usage. At present, over 50% of Jetwing Hotels’ energy requirement is met by renewable energy sources; namely sustainably sourced fuel wood, solar electricity (PV), solar thermal and biogas. This is utilized with the use of vapour absorption chillers, centralized hot water systems, rooftop solar PV systems and bio gas digesters across the properties.

“With the certificates we have received we have achieved quite a milestone indeed. Nine of our 19 resorts are now certified, and is a great honour to have our efforts recognized and verified according to international standards” said Hiran Cooray, Chairman, Jetwing Hotels. “Our engineering and hotel teams constantly work hard to live up to our reputation being a company that utilizes green technology, and we thank them for their efforts as we can only go further from here”, he continued. Family owned and in the tourism industry for the past 44 years, Jetwing Hotels has surpassed expectation at every aspect. Building on their foundation of being passionate, as well as, the experience of true, traditional Sri Lankan hospitality, constantly pioneering discoveries, captures the essence of the brand. Such a strong statement and direction has enabled Jetwing Hotels to imagine, create and manage marvels and masterpieces, where distinctive design and elegant comfort complement each other and the environment.
