Palladium Holdings is geared to provide a comprehensive range of solutions including market entry consultancy, architectural guidance, construction consultancy and services, furniture design and installation, kitchen design and installation as well as equipment for hospitality and mixed use development projects, under one roof.

The company also provides services such as commercial laundry and linen products supply, hotel software configuration and food franchise options. With over 15 years of experience among the leadership team and strong partnerships established with over 150 global hospitality brands, Palladium Holdings is amply equipped to fill the current market gap for a single entity to provide holistic hospitality solutions from concept to completion, a company spokesman said. “We are ready to launch comprehensive solutions to the high end and mid-tier hospitality and mixed use development projects. Given the recent expansion in the Sri Lankan hospitality landscape we believe that Palladium Holdings will be able to fill a dearth in the market. Our Company has been conceptualised with a vision for the future of hospitality solutions and with the development of the tourism industry in Sri Lanka in mind,” Founder and Director of Palladium Holdings, Shamrin Mohamed said. “Our collective experience in the industry has instilled a deep understanding in all of us on the value of integrity, collaboration, trust and the importance of quality of our products and services.

Consequently, in all areas of business dealing and operations, Palladium Holdings adhere to a set of core values designed to build ethical and long-term relationships that benefit all parties involved. Palladium Holdings will be the future of hospitality and will play an integral role in defining the hospitality industry of Sri Lanka,” Mohamed said. Head of Sales and Legal Officer of Palladium Holdings, Abida Tariq said, “Palladium creates a conducive environment as an all-inclusive resource for foreign investors seeking to take advantage of Sri Lanka’s growing appeal as an attractive destination for investments. As our skilled Relationship Managers work closely alongside government officials, as we are able to make the experience seamless as possible.”

According to a report issued by JLL Global Commercial Real Estate Services, in recent years, Sri Lanka’s real estate industry expanded considerably and this expansion is projected to continue in the near future fuelled by increased demand for residential and commercial space as well as the country’s evolving tourism industry requirements. The Central Bank Annual report states that the real estate and construction sector made a significant contribution to the recent economic growth.

Palladium Holdings management panel has considerable experience in providing products and services to both high-end and mid-tier hotel projects in the Middle East and the South East Asian region. Working from a point of in-depth understanding about the different requirements of investors, hoteliers, operators and management companies, the company is able to combine these unique yet different objectives to provide solutions that satisfy all requirements.
