The Hayleys Group, a diversified conglomerate and a pioneer in value-added exports, entered the digital marketing e-commerce platform with the launch of its latest website www.hayleystea.com.

It will promote Pure Ceylon Teas from its own tea estates, Kelani Valley and Talawakelle under the Mabroc brand. The launch coincides with the 150th anniversary celebrations of Ceylon Tea.

With the growth of digital e-commerce offering convenience and delivery at the doorstep, the Hayleys online tea portal will provide direct access to its global clientele.

Hayleys Chairman Mohan Pandithage said, “e-Commerce will break traditional barriers in accessing global market channels providing direct access to the end consumer. The Hayleys Tea portal would provide the much needed impetus to reach tea lovers across the world directly. They can now appreciate a cup of Hayleys Tea simply by ordering online.” Hayleys partnered with Kapruka.com, an e-commerce organization, to develop the online tea portal and Grasshoppers by Kapruka is on board to execute the back-end logistics of order fulfillment in terms of international shipping and delivery.

The website was launched by Chairman and Chief Executive of Hayleys Group, Mohan Pandithage at a High Tea function at The Kingsbury Hotel. Chairman, Sri Lanka Tea Board, Rohan Pethiyagoda was also present.

The Hayleys Plantation Cluster is backed by the strength of two premier Regional Plantation Companies; Kelani Valley Plantations PLC and Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC. The companies collectively account for 3.8% of Sri Lanka’s total tea production. Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd., the marketing arm of Hayleys Plantations markets the finest and freshest Ceylon Tea, combining over hundred years of expertise as tea blenders and exporters in Sri Lanka. Going beyond traditional tea with cutting edge technology and a unique production process is Hayleys Global Beverages (Pvt) Ltd., which produces and markets instant tea powders, concentrates and aromas to a global clientele.

Hayleys Plantations sector companies are recipients of several International accreditations and certifications such as Rainforest Alliance, Forest Stewardship Council, Ethical Tea partnership (ETP), UTZ, Global GAP, HACCP and ISO 22000 Certification. Mabroc/Kelani Valley Teas launched in 2007 is the first ethical tea brand in the world to be a signatory to the United Nations Global compact.
