Three comprehensive international expos for the entire textile and garment industry of Sri Lanka will be held from March 8-10 at the Sri Lanka Exhibition and Convention Centre (SLECC), Colombo.

CEMS-Global USA, a multinational exhibition organizer will present these three expos for the 9th consecutive time. The Textech Sri Lanka 2018 International expo will comprised of an international exhibition on textile garment technology and machinery along with concurrent exhibitions of Colombo International Yarn & Fabric Show 2018’ Expo’ and ‘31stDye+Chem Sri Lanka 2018 International, an international exhibition on dyes and fine and specialty chemicals.

“We are one of the first companies to start business with Sri Lanka in 2009. We also have encouraged other companies to enter Sri Lankan market soon after the war ended. This country has changed a lot for the better and has a vibrant apparel industry,” CEMS Global USA and Asia Pacific Group CEO S.S. Sarwar said.

Sri Lanka is developing as a regional hub for apparels. We started this show in 2010 with a very few companies and it has grown to become a leading textile exhibition in the country. With all this positive indicators, we expect that this year’s expo to be a bigger show. There will be 170 international companies from over five countries including China and India taking part in the show, he said.

“The expo provides every thing from yarn to material to expansion of factories under one roof in the apparel and textile sector. As far as Sri Lanka is concerned, the country is reputed for high-end garments. Sri Lanka has gone way beyond stitching apparel and meeting the customer requirements,” he said.

The performance in the apparel sector seems to be promising. The country recorded US $ 5.2 billion exports from apparel with an increase of $ 1.2 billion within the last 2 to 3 years. The GSP plus facility will bring added benefit to the country. The first two months of the first quarter recorded $ 4.5 million exports.

“The three day event will be ideal platform for B2B meetings and exchanging ideas. This will also be huge revenue for the MICE industry in Sri Lanka.

However, we need the support of the BOI, SLECC and other authorities as we have given Sri Lanka a big networking opportunity. This will be a positive encouragement towards the annual event,” he said.

CEMS-Global USA launched its operations in Sri Lanka as CEMS Lanka in 2009 immediately after the civil war was over. CEMS-Global was the first company to enter Sri Lanka after that and to have launched its most important International Trade Exhibitions for the Trade & Industry of Sri Lanka in 2010 with a vision to further expand into the fast booming Sri Lankan Industry sector and bringing most reputed international manufacturers and suppliers through its exhibitions to Sri Lanka.

Since then CEMS-Global USA and CEMS Lanka have been putting in all efforts and held important B2B trade shows for the textile and apparel industry, logistics and shipping and power and energy. CEMS- Global and CEMS Lanka have partnered with important business associations of Sri Lanka and have been successfully creating important business to business platforms in form of trade shows for the benefit of Sri Lanka.

Since its inception in 1992, CEMS-Global, celebrating 26 years of its inception this year, has made commendable presence as a multinational exhibition organizer across 3 continents. CEMS-Global organizes over 40 exhibitions per annum on all important sectors of the trade and economy.

With its Global HQ in USA with its own operated offices in other countries - CEMS Lanka, CEMS Bangladesh, CEMS-Global USA Brazil Office, CEMS India, CEMS Indonesia, CEMS China along with 10 associate offices around the world.

The 9th Textech Sri Lanka 2018 International Expo’ is targeted not only to the textile and apparel sector but also to the entire manufacturing sector of Sri Lanka.

The textile and apparel industry of South Asia has the key position in the export sector. Keeping in mind the potential of this sector and to further boost the exports, CEMS-Global has been organizing the three expos.
