Colombo-based RNH Group is on an expansion mode to better tap Sri Lanka’s post-war opportunities and international and regional business prospects especially in tourism and service sectors. 
Through its expansion, the company intends to capitalise on the increased business potential from new infrastructure here in Sri Lanka, and reap greater benefits from closer relationships with established clients overseas, Dinuk Hettiarachchi, CEO/ Director of RNH Group said. He added that the company plans to implement a number of new initiatives in business sectors including IT , Business Consultancy, International Trade, Real Estate etc enhancing its capacity, and launching new product developments.

Dinuk Hettiarachchi. Pic by M D Nissanka
In an interview with the Business Times, Mr. Hettiarachchi disclosed that they are entering into tourism, services, local and foreign investment facilitation in a big way as the country’s present and future growth depends on these sectors. He said that they are planning to open a 20-room boutique hotel in Kalpitiya in June or July next year to augment the tourism industry in the island, with investment being in the region of Rs.75 million.

He revealed that RNH-IT is involved in providing turnkey IT solutions for a wide range of clientele in the government and private sectors. The company also caters to the IT needs of clientele in European countries, Japan, China and India. The RNH Group is also involved in providing services for local and foreign investors. He noted that they are also engaged in coir and coir product exports in a big way.

RNH Group has a qualified team of industry specific professionals in diverse areas of business. The company was established over 25 years ago by incorporating Nihal Hettiarachchi & Co, a firm of Chartered Accountants. Subsequently, the firm diversified into IT, Business Consultancy, International Trade, Real Estate and several other areas.

Nihal Hettiarachchi & Company, RNH Holdings, RNH Management Consultants, RNH Infotec and Verve events and entertainment are functioning under the wings of the group. Founded in September 1985 in a small room at Union Place Colombo by Nihal Hettiarachchi, chairman of the group with two employees, the accountancy firm has gained significant progress by providing personalized customer services. Mr Hettiarachchi said that his father’s objective was to create a smaller, more intimate firm with its sights set on high income earning individuals and medium sized corporate clients with potential for growth, so that a personalized customer service could be provided. All group companies have expanded their activities and achieved substantial growth; both in turnover and earnings. Today these companies are firmly established in their respective fields of activity, he said.
