As far as innovations are concerned, Sunshine Holdings has been the first mover in many instances. “As a group, we have never been afraid to fail. Our Board is such that they don’t restrict us from trying things new.

“When you look at a concept like Healthguard pharmacy, it has been a new concept for us to try in Sri Lank. We have recently gone into dairy business and not lot of people has invested that kind of money in going into a dairy business. We are continuing to do new things.

“There are many lessons as the management head I have learned. The first lesson is to be humble. You also learn to respect people and learn to appreciate leadership.

“You also learn to work as a team. Just because you are the head of the group, it means nothing without the help of your fellow employees. For me, it is always people, people and people. We work as a team, respect each other challenge each other every day to do better and win.

That is what I have learnt by being the leader of the group.”

“The management/business ideas applied to develop the company’s concepts so far are based on the founders’ vision. They are to be sharp in our business commitments, be conscious of our costs and respect the customer – look at what the customer wants, not what we want to build for customer. We always want to know from the customer what they want from us.

“Today we are the number one tea brand in Sri Lanka. Why did we get the People’s Award? People have selected us and believed in us. We greatly believe in the customer power.

“I see the plantation sector to be a challenge but at the same time, I feel there are so many opportunities we could tap into. The plantation sector pretty much has the most amount of land and people.

“We have to make sure that we take best use of this land. Unlike other countries, we have talented people in the plantations sector so we have to invest properly and make use of their talents in an effective manner. We need to find big investments to further develop the plantations sector.

“The Global Banking and Finance Review recognized the Sunshine Holdings as the Most Innovative Holding Group in Sri Lanka. I feel very proud about this.

“This is the second consecutive time the organization has been recognized with this coveted accolade. In its award announcement, Global Banking and Finance Review emphasized Sunshine Holding’s success in launching innovative brands, usage of high technology applications in Sri Lanka’s agribusiness sector and ensuring high standards of customer service and strong client relations with personal and client-focused services. The award actually belongs to my team. It is recognition of a company wanting to do new things.

“The Group’s future plan would be to add more value to share holders. It does not matter whether you are into consumer or plantation or healthcare.

At the end of the day, the shareholder of my company wants to make sure that his or her share is worth 10-20 per cent more than what they are worth today. When we meet as a team and look what we want to do, that is what we are aiming to do.
