Ceylon Tours, a pioneer tour operating company in Sri Lanka, marked its 70th anniversary this July.  In view of this milestone the management is organising a musical event which will feature several international artistes who will perform on October 1, 2016.
In celebration of the successful journey in the industry, they together with Cargills PLC, Prestige Automobile (BMW) along with E Fm Radio presents ‘The Best Sixties Show since the Sixties’.
The show deemed the revival of an era gone by will feature the former front man of the Jetliners; Indra Raj and other iconic musicians such as the founding member and Rhythm Guitarist, Anton Gunawijeya.
They will be joined by internationally acclaimed artistes such as the famed bass guitarist Alan Jones, Elvis Presley sound alike Pete Roth, and Cliff Richard impersonator Dave Roberts singing Cliff Richard songs to name a few.
The concert event will take place at the Museaus College Auditorium at 7.00 pm and the exclusive sit down dinner show will be held on the October 2 at 7.30 pm at the Galadari Hotel Colombo.
Speaking on the show, Suren Ediriweera,Managing Director of Ceylon Tours said that over the years, they have had a strict clientele. “This I believe shows the quality of our service. Customer satisfaction is very important to us and therefore we always give priority to their choices.”
Founder of Ceylon Tours, P. A Ediriweera, has worked with a vision to explore dream vacations and destinations for deserving customer. Although it initially started off extending services to inbound tours, today the company also specialises in providing outbound tours.  As such the company has extended its services to provide specialised tours to countries such as the Maldives, Brazil, Cuba, Vietnam, UK, Germany and France.
In addition to that, Ceylon Tours was one of the first travel companies to become a member of International Air Transport Assosiation (IATA) and works closely with all airlines. Equipped with their own fleet of vehicles, the company ensures a quality experience for its customers.
