RN Constructions (Pvt) Ltd, one of the leading construction companies in Sri Lanka, recently marked its 20th anniversary at a special event that felicitated its employees, selected clients and consultants.
RN Group of Companies provides technologically-advanced, high-quality construction solutions through its six specialised group companies. The parent company – RN Constructions (Pvt) ltd – began operations in 1996 with just 3 employees under the visionary leadership of two brothers – Ruwan Edirisinghe, the current Chairman who is a qualified civil engineer, and his brother Nishantha. RN Group’s area of expertise includes construction of factory and warehouse buildings, commercial buildings, housing projects, hotels, hospitals, roads, bridges and telecommunication towers, according to a company media release.
The company uses its own expertise on all projects, through its in-house design team, machinery and raw material production facilities and reached the prestigious M1 category – the highest grade in construction – by 2005.
By focusing on backward integration, the company has captured a significant market share in industrial construction projects in Sri Lanka during the past 10 years.
The release said the newest addition of the companies – RN Innovative Products (Pvt) Ltd – was set up as a BOI-approved manufacturing company in the Export Processing Zone in Mirijjawila, Hambantota. It is equipped with five manufacturing facilities to produce the complete range of construction material required for modern building construction industry to cater to local and foreign market in the south Asian region.
Speaking at the event, Ruwan Edirisinghe – Chairman of RN Group, stated, “As we reach this significant milestone in the history of our company I am proud to state that in a relatively short span of 20 years we have reached the highest levels in the construction industry in Sri Lanka. Today, we are one of the most sought after construction companies in Sri Lanka due to our brilliant track record in timely delivery of projects, competitive prices, use of superior technology and of course our dedicated professional service”.
