Maliban Biscuit Manufactories (Pvt) Ltd. launched their latest CSR initiative to provide a free bus service for school children from the Ratmalana area. The event was graced by Hon. Upali Kodikara, Minister of Transport for the Western Province, Mr. Piyadasa Marambage, CEO of the National Child Protection Authority and SSP K. Arsharathnam, Director of Traffic Administration and Road Safety at Police Headquarters.
Hon. Upali Kodikara, inaugurated the school bus service, which will commence at 6.15 a.m each morning from the Golumadama Junction on Galle Road up to Town Hall. The school bus will pass through Ratmalana, Mt Lavinia, Dehiwala, Wellawatte, Bagatalle Road, R A De Mel Mawatha, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Thummulla Junction, Thurstan Road, Nelum Pokuna Mawatha up to Town Hall and Lipton Roundabout.
School children from numerous schools along this bus route including Kothalawalapura Vidyalaya Ratmalana, St Thomas' College Mt Lavinia, Holy Family Convent, Dehiwala, Thurstan College, Royal College and Buddhist Lady's College will benefit from the free bus service. At 1.45 p.m the school bus will commence its return journey from Town Hall taking the same route back to Golumadama.
Speaking at the event Hon. Upali Kodikara, stated, "I appreciate this unique initiative taken by Maliban to enable school children to experience a safe trip to and from school free of charge. I hope this service will further strengthen with time, and as the Minister of Transport to the Western province I will do my utmost to help Maliban take this initiative forward."
"This is yet another innovative project by Maliban, which would be an invaluable service for school children, setting an example to other private companies. Most importantly it is implemented abiding by the standards of the National Child Protection Authority. Therefore, I wish to extend my sincere appreciation on behalf of the National Child Protection Authority and hope that Maliban will find the strength to improve this service further," stated Mr. Piyadasa Marambage, CEO, National Child Protection Authority.
This initiative is yet another inclusion to their impressive repertoire of community services carried out by Maliban and furthermore, due to its unprecedented nature its uniqueness is highlighted. A breakthrough idea of Mr. D.L. Weerasooriya, Group CEO the project was initiated under the blessings of Mr. A.G.R. Samaraweera, Group Chairman and the Board of Directors of Maliban Biscuit Manufactories (Pvt) Ltd.
Mr. Bandula Perera, Group General Manager, HR and Administration - Maliban Biscuit Manufactories (Pvt) Ltd. stated, "This free school bus service will actually benefit children from 21 schools. We have made notable efforts to recruit the best drivers for this service who have more than 30 years of service with the Ceylon Transport Board. This way, we have ensured the complete safety and comfort of the school children using this service."
Equipped with ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 22001, OHSAS 18001 certificates and many other international and national awards, Maliban Biscuit Manufactories (Pvt) Ltd. is always willing to contribute to worthy causes throughout the island.
