Kaspersky Lab has presented the new version of its flagship security solution Kaspersky Internet Security 2017 with Multi Device protection, which provided users with additional opportunities to manage their Internet protection and to ensure  data safety.
Kaspersky Internet Security 2017 Multi Device security solution is for the whole family; they protect Windows, Mac, and Android users against malware, dangerous sites, online tracking, fraud and money theft, according to a company media release.
This year Kaspersky Lab products for Windows have integrated several new functions including new features wherein, users can patch potential “holes” in their device security with Software Updater and Software Cleaner.
Altaf Halde, Managing Director – South Asia, Kaspersky Lab said “Sri Lanka is growing at a fast pace in the digital world and so it needs digital security. At Kaspersky Lab we strive to protect everything of value to our users from cybercriminals, hackers and malware writers. People are now more conscious about security and they are careful with their digital assets; we believe that our new product line will ensure that our users enjoy their computing experience. The new product line has become more powerful and has been further enhanced to ensure users’ privacy and security.”
Board Directors of Avian Technologies – Ranil Francisco and Buddhika Liyanage said “Avian Technologies’ alliance with Kaspersky Lab runs back to almost a decade, a partnership which has ensured latest IT Security solutions to the rapidly growing ICT industry in Sri Lanka. We are proud to be launching the Kaspersky Internet Security 2017 version with Multi Device Security protection. Having established itself over 10 years ago, with the goal to maintain the most robust, reliable services and solutions for the industry, Avian Technologies stands as the leader of the IT Security industries of Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Avian Technologies is the only technology company to have a 24/7 hotline for professional sales and technical support in Sri Lanka, and a wide distribution network with over 300 re-sellers island wide.”
The two new functions included in the latest version are the Software Updater and Software Cleaner, both developed to ensure protection and speed in the devices.
