Lassana Flora has 'refreshed' itself with a more vibrant yet sophisticated outlook to cater to every customer's need. Amongst the many services that have been planned for the months ahead, in addition to offering exquisite flower arrangements, the company has expanded into other services - including providing cake structures, wedding cakes and wedding cards and even gift deliveries such as chocolates, cakes and soft toys to name a few.
The company said it offers its services through its five main branches at Nawala, Galle Face Hotel, Moratuwa, Negombo and Kandy, along with its state-of-the-art workshop and cool room facility at its Homagama stores complex. It is the only wedding florist company in Sri Lanka to use a fleet of freezer trucks to deliver flowers in order to preserve their beauty for a longer duration of time.
The statement said the company is now expanding into modern trade by opening outlets in shopping malls and supermarkets - all in order to ensure that their customers will have access to their products and services with greater convenience. Dr. Lasantha Malavige (MBBS, DIPM, PhD), founder of Lassana Flora said that the fully fledged website would be useful to customers in any corner of the world, be it locals, foreigners or even Sri Lankan expatriates.
"Lassana Flora is the first and only floral company to be awarded the ISO certification in the whole of South Asia," he said. "Such an accomplishment wouldn't have been possible if not for a dedicated team of co-workers whose individual creativity and consistency makes a significant contribution towards the end product. Our vision is to set a benchmark in excellence in all what we do. Therefore we intend to recruit more dynamic young men and women with a passion for creativity and innovation as management trainees."
In addition to its own nurseries, Lassana Flora recently opened a collecting centre in the Nuwara Eliya Economic centre helping small growers to sell their produce at better prices and in return encouraging community development. This together with other initiatives taken to streamline supply chain management will reduce the post harvest wastage of flowers by 15% and in addition, the quality and freshness of the flowers will be significantly better, Dr Malavige added.
