Life Insurance Corporation Lanka Ltd., (LIC Lanka), in partnership with the Bartleet Group of Sri Lanka, represents LIC of India. LIC Lanka is a dedicated life insurance provider, and thereby the focus is only on life insurance and allied products.
With the launch of their new communications strategy supported by their range of product offerings, they hope to make life insurance more accessible to all Sri Lankans.
The new communication platform will reach out to all Sri Lankan’s in almost all segments of society due to the innovative, simple, affordable and people friendly nature of the policies on offer. This is supported by the security of a trusted and reliable insurance organisation who have already made a significant impression in the local industry.
At the core of the new communications strategy is the simple, yet heart warming ‘Ant Campaign’ which draws an unpretentious comparison to life due to the insignificant size of an ant in comparison to the greater scheme of things.
Yet, everyone will agree that even the most insignificant life on this planet such as an insect should not be harmed, as it is precious and has the equal right to life. This campaign is based on this simple premise and LIC Lanka’s lifeline will ensure that their promise of life insurance for all,is possible. Though they started operations in 2002, LIC (Lanka) Ltd.,was in fact operating in the Sri Lankan market since 1956, until nationalization, but continued to establish expertise and talent for the local insurance sector.
The Management Development Centre of LIC of India in Mumbai was instrumental in training many Sri Lankan insurance officials who later went on to become the stalwarts of the insurance industry.
Today, LIC Lanka is an established name in the life insurance market of Sri Lanka. With fully-fledged branches at over 30 locations around the Island, LIC (Lanka) Ltd., has introduced a range of sensible, simple and very affordable life insurance products to enable all Sri Lankans to enjoy the security of life insurance throughout their lives.
LIC Lanka’s new communication campaign ‘Lifeline for life’ easily identifies what they stand for as a dedicated life insurance company, which is “Life insurance for all Sri Lankans for life” which also includes a host of tailor-made solutions for corporate customers and their employees as well.
To name a few plans in the product basket of LIC Lanka: Jeevan Ananda, Divyangana, Ashirwada, Aradhana, Niranthara, Prarthana, Swarna, Janatha, Surakshana and a range of other products to suit individual needs that can be obtained through any of their 30 branches around the island.
Soon, they will be introducing other innovative and novel insurance products such as the LIC Group Gratuity and other products aimed at expanding the life insurance industry, whilst finally providing all Sri Lankan’s optimised financial security they deserve. 

