Sri Lanka’s 100% local dairy manufacturer, Pelwatte Dairy Industries Limited, is gearing up to launch a range of new dairy based products in 2018. Out of its factories and facilities in Buttala and Moneragala new products such as Drinking Yoghurt, UHT Milk, Flavoured UHT Milk, Infant Milk Powder and a collection of novel ice-cream flavours.
“We have an ambitious plan for the year 2018. We aim to release a number of new product ranges, some with flavours that have not been seen in the Sri Lankan market before. Extensive market research has been conducted over what is lacking in the dairy market in Sri Lanka and we are indeed proud as a 100% local brand to be able to fill those gaps with quality assured products”, said Pelwatte Dairy’s Managing Director, Akmal Wickramanayake.
Using only 100% locally sourced milk, Pelwatte Dairy will launch a range of completely new drinking yoghurts for the Sri Lankan market. The product will provide consumers with a completely natural and organic product range that is made with 100% local produce.
Meanwhile the launch of unflavoured and flavoured UHT Milk is also on the cards. The re-launch will see fresh liquid milk sourced from farmers around the country reaching consumers around the country in ready-to-use packaging. The existing flavoured milk line will also be revamped to provide consumers with a range of classic and new flavours of liquid milk. These will be a much-needed nutrition addition to children’s diets.
Also catering to the growing need of locally produced infant milk, Pelwatte Dairy will also take on the challenge of providing a quality assured and reasonable alternative to a market that is made up of predominantly foreign products.
The Pelwatte Ice-Cream range has already been identified as a unique one for its rich creamy taste and the exotic flavours that the dairy producer has manufactured.
In addition to the new range of products Pelwatte Dairy also have plans to increase their production capacity for full cream milk powder by 50%, as they strive to become the leading manufacturer of dairy products in Sri Lanka.
