Delmege Forsyth and Co added yet another product to its portfolio by launching the ‘Delmege Instant Noodles' to Sri Lankan consumers. Delmege introduced its new product range in two delicious flavours, ‘curry' and ‘chicken', which is noted to be the most preferred taste for the Sri Lankan palate.
The ‘curry' instant noodle comes in an 80g pack and the ‘chicken' flavour in an 82g pack. Delmege instant noodles, the latest in the Delmege range of food products, will be made available at over 60,000 outlets directly through the company's well established island wide network of distributors and another 6,000 through partnerships.
The new products were launched at a ceremony, at which Channa De Silva, Managing Director - Delmege Group was the Chief Guest and the ceremony was attended by top officials, the sales team and distributors of the company.
Addressing the audience at the launch, De Silva said, "Delmege is one of the largest conglomerates in Sri Lanka that has diversified into health care, power tools, consumer goods and durables, lifestyle products, leisure and cargo handling, to name a few. Delmege is fully owned by the Vallibel Group, which contributes more than 1.5 percent to the nation's GDP, over five percent to Sri Lanka's tax revenue and accounts for over 3.5 percent of the total export earnings of the country."
Speaking of the company's strengths, Nuwan Wimalana, CEO - Delmege Group said that by being a 100 percent local company with over 160 years of trusted heritage, Delmege has successfully built a household name for quality, which is a key factor in consumer goods.
Highlighting the significance of the new product to the Delmege portfolio, Ashan Kannangara, Consumer Cluster CEO - Delmege said that this initiative has opened up a new category for the company altogether. "The launch of this new range shows the company's commitment to invest in new ventures. This ensures flourishing of the business which will benefit the community at large. I can confidently say that Delmege Instant Noodles brand will give additional top line revenue to the consumer cluster," he said.
Speaking on the instant noodle market in Sri Lanka, Delmege Brand Manager, Nuwan Wickramapathirana said that, over 8000 tons of Instant Noodles are consumed annually in Sri Lanka. To this volume, the category has seen a growth of over 60% in the last few years and this clearly justifies the potential in the category.
