Innovative Smart Solutions (Pvt) Limited (iS2) launched their ‘SmartHome’ product line under the brand name Apé in Colombo last week.
With the Apé SmartHome system, users could control their electrical devices such as lights and fans remotely using their mobile phones.
Innovative Smart Solutions is a local company which provides systems for managing electronic devices. This latest step of the company is in line with their mission to revive electronic manufacturing in Sri Lanka.
Apé products are designed in Sri Lanka, based on proven reference designs of reputed companies such as Cypress Semiconductors, Power Integration and Microchip of USA.
The product design is carried out by a team of electronic and electrical engineers at iS2. The electronic components are manufactured by TOS Lanka in their state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in the Biyagama Free Trade Zone.
“Except for the glass panels and plastic components, all of the other technology designs, manufacturing, assembly and testing of the Apé product line is now carried out in Sri Lanka. Therefore, as the brand name signifies, Apé is a 100 percent Sri Lankan product, probably the first in this category of electronic touch switches and plug sockets,” said founder of iS2 Jeremy Fernando. The Export Development Board (EDB) of Sri Lanka has recognised Apé as a potential export oriented product line and has supported the company by granting product development assistance recently.
“Innovation is the key to any successful business and the companies introducing new products and services to the market that cater to the customer appeal will be ahead of the competition.
The ‘Ape’ brand is truly a local brand and that backed by the enterprising skills of its CEO, has all the prerequisites to scale up to be among the leading global electrical and electronics brands,” the Chairperson and Chief Executive of Sri Lanka Export Development Board, Indira Malwatte said in a message. “We are happy that the EDB could closely associate with the company in its journey to this level of success. Innovative Smart Solutions has been on a number of EDB promotional programs and we believe the exposure has contributed in no small measure for the company in achieving its growth targets,” she said.
“The company is also on the EDB’s National Program to establish 2,000 new exporters under Electronics and Electrical sector SME companies to be introduced to the export market.
“The company’s brand ‘Ape’ successfully marketed in overseas markets such as Mexico, currently is proof of the brand’s ability to stay abreast with similar international brands.
Electronics and electrical services is a foremost sector that the EDB has identified for development and promotion in the National Export Strategy covering the period up to 2020, as it has the capacity to become a main export earner given its potential which is hitherto largely untapped. Companies with innovative products and proper brand strategies will speed up the pace in which to achieve the sector’s growth targets. We see Business Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. as a strong contender in this respect,” she said.
Manager of Overseas Operations at TOS Lanka Limited, Melani Rajakaruna presented the TOS Lanka company profile and manufacturing capabilities in Sri Lanka to the audience at the product launch.
“With our years of experience in the field of Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) in Sri Lanka, we are happy to be the EMS partner of iS2. We will assure the highest quality achievable within our purview when manufacturing Apé product line at TOS Lanka, which we believe will help iS2 to become a major exporter of electronic switches, plug sockets and other accessories in Sri Lanka soon,” Rajakaruna said.
With the immediate objective of deploying sufficient Units in Operation (UIO) in the country, iS2 will initially offer the product line to the local industry.
This would be an ideal opportunity for the local building industry to use Apé products in their development projects.
Apart from the intended export market, the company feels it would be feasible for architects and builders in Sri Lanka to deploy the same products for their customers as well. 
