LS Electric Systems (Pvt) Ltd launched its new product brand 'Metasol' at Galle Face Hotel recently. 'Metasol' was launched worldwide in June 2011 while its official launch in Sri Lanka took place at an event held in Colombo at the end of July. With a view to enhancing the field of power solutions, 'Metasol', a premium brand, was developed through the LS Industrial System's "World's No. 1 Product Project," which further increased the company's reputation internationally. This product is the new concept for low voltage energy, contactors, overload relay, MCCB and ACB.
The launch of 'Metasol' signified a momentous step in the history of LS Electric systems. Guided by its 'quality-first' principle, the new brand is produced with the company's own technology know-how and meets the need for environmental compatible solutions. It is an advanced technology and provides expert solutions, economical solutions with its compact size and easy connection, and a protective system in the peripheral device. It is an environmentally friendly product complying with the ROHS International Environment Standard. In addition, 'Metasol' ensures reliability in the system with its Type II coordination.
Commencing operations in 2002, LS Electric Systems is an agent of LS Industrial Systems in Korea - manufacturers in the fields of electric power and automation and exporting to over 50 countries worldwide. It offers low voltage equipment and electric solutions.
LS Industrial systems separated from the LG group and re-launched itself as the LS Group in 2005. It aims to be true 'innovators of innovation' with the ability to support and complete each customer's innovation, while also providing valuable products and services. LS aims to develop into a company that contributes to the overall society, and offers a business environment where employees can realize their dreams. Based on the idea 'Always with our Customers', LS Industrial Systems plans to further develop its business in the fields of power solutions, transmission and distribution, power IT solutions, wired/wireless communication, USN and sensors, electric vehicle components, new and renewable energy sources.
"Our ambition is to protect Sri Lanka in all industrial fields, because our items serve as the main protector of all equipment, buildings and life. We function as a kind of safety sector for humans," stated Mr. Kwang Yeoul Lee, Agent of LS Industrial Systems. Speaking about the reason behind the launch of 'Metasol', Mr. Lee added, "we want our products to cover the entire Sri Lankan community and industry and at the same time save energy. Our aim is to be an asset to the nation. We hope to expand the distribution of our products to the power generation, electric and industrial sectors."

