Sri Lanka’s Urban Development Authority (UDA) is planning to introduce the Single Window processing that will enable developers to obtain clearances by submitting a single application to the UDA, a top Minister said last week. Delivering a speech at the inauguration of the annual sessions of Sri Lanka Institute of Architects, Minister of Megapolis and Western Development, Patali Champika Ranawaka said that the UDA has already launched the on-line development permit processing where developers can obtain clearances, permits and other certificates much faster than previously.
“The UDA will soon go into Single Window Processing where the developers can obtain their clearances from the myriad of development permitting agencies without running into all of them by submitting a single application to the UDA,” the Minister asserted. He noted that despite Sri Lanka slipping in the 2017 Ease of Doing Business Index to a middle position, obtaining of development clearances, which is one aspect in arriving at the overall index, has however improved by reaching the 40s slot from the 80s position.
The Minister pointed out that the UDA and institutions under the purview of the Megapolis Ministry have provided many opportunities to developers to invest in land developments both in Colombo and other urban areas in Sri Lanka in a transparent manner by calling in competitive proposals and then carefully evaluating them.
“We have no favoritism or undue dealings. We want to create a leveled playing field to all developers,” said Ranawaka, who was the Guest of Honour at the occasion graced by President Maithripala Sirisena as the Chief Guest. Meanwhile, the Minister elaborated that the UDA was recently vested with certain powers that were formerly delegated with Local Authorities with the intention of regulating the approval processes by eradicating malpractices.
“We wanted to systematize the clearance processes and get rid of bribery and underhand dealings. We wanted to fast track obtaining permits and thereby create an enabling environment to the developers,” he said.
According to informed sources, the government plans to fully automate issuing of construction permits by May 2018 for constructions of less than four floors through the eLocal Government Application by the Colombo Municipal Council.
Once complete by the targeted date of 31st May 2018, the number of days taken to issue a construction permit will be reduced from the present 115 days to 60 days

