Leading to the New Eco & Smart Life!! Panasonic together with Softlogic introduced today at Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo, its new product lineup of energy saving home electronics as "Eco-friendly" products. The lineup includes 2011 new "VIERA Plasma TVs" and "VIERA LED LCD TVs" with high efficiency and superb contrast, "ECONAVI Washing Machine" which detects load conditions, making adjustments to the water level and washing time to minimize water and electricity consumption up to 40% and 45% respectively, and "Advanced Intelligent Inverter Refrigerator" which adjusts automatically to its optimal operation mode by analyzing the usage environment, resulting in up to 40% reduction in energy consumption. The company also introduced "Ceiling Fans", featuring the combination of innovative functionality and contemporary design, to the Sri Lanka market for the first time under the Panasonic brand.
Panasonic, which aims to become the No.1 Green Innovation Company in the Electronics industry by the year 2018, the 100th anniversary of its founding, is proud to hold its first Eco Convention in Sri Lanka where there are rising demands for electricity due to the buoyant economy in the postwar reconstruction.
Mr. Yorihisa Shiokawa - Managing Executive Officer of Panasonic Corporation, who co-hosted the launching event with Softlogic, said "I'm convinced that this beautiful Sri Lanka with six renowned world heritage sites will become the leading country of both economy and ecology in the region in the near future. Panasonic makes every effort to play the leading role in providing people with "Smart and Eco" lifestyles through its products and ideas for life"
He also emphasized the company's determination and capability of offering the new "Smart and Eco" lifestyles. "Contribution to the environment protection does not necessarily require special activities or efforts, but it can be done by choosing products or solutions that are friendlier to the environment." "Only Panasonic can provide total energy saving appliances for every household in their daily life and we will continue introducing No.1 energy saving products that overwhelm competitors' and pave the way for realizing people's new Eco lifestyles." "We will seek the state in which we create a better global environment as we grow our businesses."
