Obtains services of NCPC :
System Development program for rubber and plastics sector reaches final stage :
Rubber industry contributes 6.9% of total exports:
The rubber products industry contributes 6.9% to total exports (2016). Sri Lanka produces a wide variety of rubber products and the major markets are USA, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Canada, UK, and Brazil. Sri Lankan rubber products have earned a reputation for quality and sustainability in the international market.
The country supplies to major international brands such as Continental, Solideal, Wonder Grip, Mapa, Safety work, Tesco, Sansbury wilko, Asda etc. Companies in the rubber industry use state of the art technologies for manufacturing their products.
The plastic industry although not a major export sector at present, has the potential to grow in the future. Currently, companies have access to overseas markets for polythene bags including door knob bags, shirt bags, and food wrap bags. Many plastic processors also supply packaging accessories such as hangers, buttons for garments, and packaging for tea, spices, processed foods, and perishables.
Energy consumption in the manufacturing process of both sectors is relatively high compared with other industries and cause significant environmental issues. Considering current global trends and market ethics, major brands demand for eco-friendly and sustainable products.
Considering the importance placed by the international buyers as well as consumers on environmental friendly and sustainable products and also to be competitive in the global market place, it has become increasingly important to adhere to stringent procedures to minimize environmental issues and energy consumption. Therefore, introducing ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 is vital for a product to gain a competitive advantage in the international market.
To facilitate the industry to address the above issues, the EDB commenced a System Development Program this year for selected companies of the rubber and plastics sector by obtaining the services of a professional expert, the National Cleaner Production Centre (NCPC).
NCPC is one of the foremost cleaner production solution providers in Sri Lanka with over fifteen years of experience in promoting resource efficient and cleaner production in various industries and business sectors in the country.
It is registered as an energy service company under Sustainable Energy Authority and registered as a consultant organization under the Central Environment Authority in Sri Lanka.
The System Development Program which is now in the final stage, commenced with a CEO’s Forum to obtain the commitment of the top management of all the selected companies and followed by awareness seminars, preliminary audits, capacity building programs (train the trainer), internal auditor training, mock audit training programs, consultancy on system development, energy reviews with complete evaluation of energy flow, and development of procedure manuals which will facilitate the companies to obtain ISO 14001 and ISO 50001.
The NCPC will also assist the companies in the application process for certification. Six companies were selected for ISO 50001 certification while four companies selected for ISO 14001 certification. All six companies are in the process of applying for certification at present.
With the implementation of the System Development Program, the EDB plans to introduce and establish manufacturing excellence practices in the rubber product industry to improve sustainability and resource efficiency resulting in substantial cost reduction to enhance the competitiveness of the products in the international market. ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certifications are main certifications that international buyers demand when sourcing products.
The EDB works very closely with the industry and the Sri Lanka Association of Manufacturers and Exporters of Rubber Products ( SLAMERP) in identifying the needs of the industry and facilitate them to buildup competencies which in turn will sustain the industry in the international market in the long run and increase export earnings.
The System Development Program is implemented on a cost sharing basis where part of the cost of consultancy fee and certification will be borne by the EDB.
The EDB proposes to continue this program for other product sectors as well in the future. 

