Union Assurance would like to express its heartfelt appreciation and gratitude, for all the stakeholders who have stood by its side, enabling it to achieve many awards of excellence. The company isstrongly committed to working together in order to bring about a trustworthy tomorrow for all its customers and stakeholders.Through extensive efforts UA strives and have set its path to drive towards success as one team.

With the great support from all stakeholders, the company continued its winning streak well in to the close of 2016, with a flurry of awards and accolades. The company has been recognized year on year for its commitment to building trust and providing its customers with unparalleled service.

The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), at its recently concluded sustainability awards ceremony, recognized Union Assurance as the overall winner in the financial services and insurance category. This is the 12th consecutive year that ACCA has been conducting these awards, and the 8th consecutive year that Union Assurance has been recognized for its excellence.

Another key award that the Company was honoured with was the ‘Great Places to Work ©’ (GPTW) award for the 4thconsecutive year. The GPTW award recognizes companies that create nurturing work environments that are conducive for the growth and development of their employees.

Union Assurance proudly acclaimed the awards for Excellence in Claims Service and Technology Innovation in the first edition of the Insurance Industry Awards of Sri Lanka organized by Fintelekt in association with the Insurance Association of Sri Lanka (IASL). UA had the highest claims settlement ratio among the participating companies for the year 2015 which won them the Excellence in Claims Service award. The Technology Innovation award was won by UA for introducing the Digital Advisor Toolkit in 2015. It is a comprehensive digital solution designed for the sales force and staff to maintain consistency in underwriting.

The Awards, organized by the Sri Lanka Chamber of Commerce, evaluates an organization’s performance on a number of criteria pertaining to business excellence, and rewards those organizations found to be leaders in industry.
