Laugfs became the first company to register a vessel at the Hambantota Port. The announcement was made with the purchase of another LPG vessel under Laughfs Maritime, to rapidly expand its fleet. The latest LPG carrier was acquired at a cost of US$ 2.8 million, and registered under the Sri Lankan flag as ‘Gas Courage’.

Laugfs Holdings Chairman, W.K.H.Wegapitiya said, “We have been aggressively expanding our interests in the power and energy sector as part of our global expansion strategy. Our plans are to strengthen our vessel fleet to 20 carriers soon, to cater to the growing logistics demand within the region as well as our own LPG operations in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.”

“’Gas Courage’ will expand the logistic capabilities of Laugfs Maritime with another 3,000 m/tonnes of LPG capacity. As global energy demand continues to rise, we are quickly gearing up to support future needs and to capture emerging opportunities, with strong investments especially focusing on energy infrastructure,” he said.

Laugfs is setting up one of the largest LPG import and export terminals in South Asia at Hambantota. The terminal, which is due to be commissioned next year, is expected to support the growing LPG demand serving as a central storage hub for the region.

The energy trading arm of Laugfs, Slogal Energy DMCC, was set up last year with headquarters in Dubai. Laugfs has also become the first Sri Lankan energy brand to become a multinational, with the acquisition of the third largest LPG distributorship in Bangladesh, one of the most lucrative emerging markets for LPG in Asia, a company spokesman said.

Laugfs Holdings Group Managing Director, Thilak de Silva said, “Our aim is to help make Sri Lanka an energy logistics hub, by leveraging on our country’s location-based advantages and Laugfs’ extensive industry knowledge and abilities in the power and energy sector. From local employment creation to infrastructure development, these will yield tremendous benefits to our country,” he said.

