Maliban Biscuits, Sri Lanka’s top biscuit manufacturer, has become the only food company in the world to be awarded a World Class Award under the Large Manufacturing category at the Global Performance Excellence Award (GPEA) by the Asia Pacific Quality Organization (APQO) at the 22nd APQO International Conference on Quality held in Rotorua, New Zealand.
The GPEA is a much sought-after award and has cemented Maliban’s place as an internationally acclaimed company with superior performance, surpassing many other multinational corporations, the company said in a media announcement.
From over 40 countries, Maliban was the only food manufacturing organisation to receive a world class award under all categories, and also the only Sri Lankan food company to ever have received a world class award. Companies were awarded for performance excellence under the categories of Large Manufacturing, Large Service, and Education, Not for Profit, Small Manufacturing, Small Service, Education and Healthcare, it said.
The Asia Pacific Quality Organization is an autonomous, non-political, non-profit, scientific and technical organization aimed at working towards the goal of achieving continuous quality improvement of goods and services. Maliban Biscuit Manufactories (Pvt) Ltd was awarded as one of 30 organisations with exemplary companies of world-class quality and performance.
Since the company’s inception in 1954 as Sri Lanka’s pioneer biscuit manufacturing company, Maliban has been the gold standard, with their use of world-class ingredients and state-of-the-art manufacturing processes.
“We have always been committed to providing our consumers with biscuits of exceptional quality and taste at an affordable price.” said Ms. Varna Fernando, General Manager – Quality Assurance & Research Development at Maliban, “We have been awarded the National Quality Award thrice, which is a testament to our use of nothing but the best quality ingredients and advanced processes to ensure that our products are superior, while achieving sustainable development.
At the time of inception, family members used to taste products to monitor quality and output. This is still practiced to this day.”
In the recent past, Maliban has received several prominent national and international awards from reputed awarding bodies for achieving business excellence.
