The Sustainability Reporting Awards 2016 organized by the Association of Chartered Certified Accounts (ACCA), Sri Lanka, was held at the Cinnamon Grand Hotel recently.

The ceremony rewarded the country’s most transparent, accountable and responsible entities at its annual flagship event, which is a competition to recognize business entities striving to comply with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards and have demonstrated excellence in sustainable development.

The event recognized companies under the categories: Conglomerates and Diversified, Banking, Financial Services and Insurance, SME (turnover less than Rs. 1 bn), Retail and Trading, Leisure and Connected Services and General Services and Utilities.

The chief guest was Resident Representative of the UNDP Sri Lanka, Una McCauley.

Sampath Bank

Sampath Bank was declared the winner in the Banking Category for its 2015 Integrated Annual Report.

Managing Director, Sampath Bank, Nanda Fernando said, “We will continue to aim for excellence in our growth and performance, while maintaining the right balance between stakeholder expectations and our responsibility to the community.”

Sampath Bank’s 2015 Annual Report was created as a completely Carbon Neutral product.

Nawaloka Hospitals

Nawaloka Hospitals PLC was presented the top award in the General Services and Utilities category.

Head of Finance at Nawaloka Hospitals, Nalaka Niroshan said, “Sustainability is a journey of continuous improvements and we are pleased to see the unwavering commitment of our employees and customers to embark on this journey.

The report reiterates greatly that sustainability remains at the core of our business practice and strategy.

We are continuously striving to drive a sustainable business strategy that focuses on the added value and long-term outcomes that can be delivered through being sustainable.”

Nawaloka Hospitals PLC’s report – ‘Pioneering Modern Healthcare’ - meets the requirements of the International Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4.0), the international standard for sustainability reporting.

DIMO

Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC (DIMO) was recognized as the overall runner-up.

DIMO was also a winner in the ‘Retail and Trading’ category.

Chairman of DIMO Ranjith Pandithage said, “We have over the years, formalised the practice of evaluating the value we create or deplete in every decision and action taken across the organisation; the benefits of this process – whether tangible or intangible, financial or otherwise - have been immense.,” The DIMO Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2016 on the theme ‘What you see is what you get’ was the company’s sixth integrated report.

Sanasa Insurance

Sanasa Insurance Company Ltd (SICL), a micro insurance provider, emerged winner in the SME category.

General Manager of SICL, Indika Kiriwandeniya said, “The company seeks to uplift peoples’ lives by focusing on them at a grassroots level as most have no access to financial assistance from banks due to a lack of assets.”

“Its micro insurance policies are geared to improve the current living standards for those seeking assistance. SICL is a unique company as it goes hand in hand with the Sanasa movement and does not belong to one individual but to the community at large,” he said.
