The Kalhari Group, engaged in the recycling and export of waste products with the dual objectives of environment conservation and foreign exchange earnings, has won nine export awards in the past ten years.

The most recent was at the National Export Awards organised by the National Chamber of Exporters which celebrated its silver jubilee at the Hilton Hotel in Colombo. Kalhari won the award in the Industry Sector - Small Category.

Kalhari’s Chairman/Managing Director, Indhra Kaushal Rajapaksa provides dynamic leadership to a team of dedicated staff that rallies round him throughout the year to ensure success in business and industry recognition.

Kalhari which has its head office in the rural village of Heiyantuduwa - seventeen kilometres from Colombo – also has factories in Mahara and Minuwangoda. Having begun operations in 2003 with the recycling of PET bottles, the company has now grown to a group of three companies engaged in the export of recycled tyre waste, rubber waste, post-consumer PET bottles and steel dust.

Rajapaksa is a visionary and pragmatic leader always on the lookout to widen his horizons. “At Kalhari we satisfy our customers by providing goods and services to exacting standards, and empower rural Sri Lanka by providing as many people as possible with a livelihood while protecting the environment at the same time,” he explained.

“Today, the world is severely challenged by the changing climate and increasing natural disasters. Driven by new technology, consumerism has become a way of life.

“The waste produced as a result is varied and in very large quantities. Recycling and safe disposal of waste have become an absolute necessity. We have therefore stepped in to harness the latest technologies to protect the environment,” he said.

Rajapaksa is also a Director of Building-A-Future Foundation - an organisation dedicated to the training of youth in ocean-based activities. He is also a Director of SailLanka Charter, the leading yacht chartering company in Sri Lanka, and Baff Polymech, which manufactures yachts in Sri Lanka.
