PropertyGuru, Asia’s foremost online property company, has been named the most outstanding developers condominium, residential and commercial projects in the country at the PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Sri Lanka) 2017, an exclusive event held on Wednesday evening (November 8) at the Sands Expo and Convention Centre at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore.

Sri Lankan developers have joined the prestigious awards program for the first-time ever in the 12-year history of the international event. Nine deserving local developers made the final shortlist.

Blue Ocean Group of Companies, which scored three places in the shortlist, has been named the Best Developer of the Year for being a sustainability leader and producing quality projects, such as, the King Alfred Palace condominium, which received Highly Commended distinctions from the independent panel of judges.

Another leading nominee, Home Lands Skyline (Pvt) Ltd, took home a few top awards as well, including the title of Best Housing Development (Sri Lanka) for the Green Valley project located in Greater Colombo. Home Lands Skyline was also presented with a special award for its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives to help improve the lives of local communities.

Lauded for its outstanding interior design, Capital TRUST Residences - Vajira Road by Capital TRUST Residencies (Pvt) Ltd was hailed as the Best Condo Development (Sri Lanka), besting the official entry from Home Lands Skyline.

A total of 13 awards were presented to celebrate Sri Lanka’s vibrant and fast-growing real estate market. The entire judging process was strictly supervised by BDO, the world’s fifth largest network of accounting and auditing firm, including actual site inspections and intensive panel deliberations.

The domestic awards for Sri Lankan developers were presented as part of the 7th Annual PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards Grand Final, where eight local winners from Sri Lanka collected further recognition for being country winners and part of the ‘Best in Asia’ class of 2017. Sri Lanka’s Deputy High Commissioner in Singapore, O. L. Ameer Ajwad, graced the ceremony to support the shortlisted developers from his home country.

Chairman of the judges Dr Nirmal De Silva, co-founder and CEO of Paramount Realty, who also formed part of the Grand Final Jury, said: “It’s a fantastic time to join the region’s most prestigious industry awards for real estate. I am pleased with the enthusiasm shown by local developers. It exemplifies their commitment to be recognized among the best at a regional level. It’s evident that we are reaching world-class standards in the local real estate sphere.”
