Sri Lanka’s most innovative diversified conglomerate, Hayleys PLC and its subsidiaries, posted another outstanding performance at the recently concluded CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards 2017, bringing home a total of 12 awards across multiple different business sectors.

Notable among this year’s accolades was the prestigious Silver Award for Overall Excellence in Annual Reporting and the Bronze Award for Integrated Reporting – Business Model to Hayleys PLC, which was also pronounced winners in the Diversified Holdings category.

Following the lead of the group, several Hayleys subsidiaries also received a further 6 Gold awards with the group’s logistics subsidiary, Hayleys Advantis winning in the Service Organisations category, while Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC took the gold in the Plantations sector, and Dipped Products PLC in the Manufacturing (above Rs. 5 billion turnover) category.

Rounding out the Gold awards for the Hayleys Group was Alumex PLC in the Manufacturing (below Rs. 5 billion turnover), Singer (Sri Lanka) PLC in the Trading category and Singer Finance in the Finance Companies (below Rs. 20 billion assets) category.

“The performance of Hayleys PLC and our subsidiaries at the CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards 2017 stands as a testament to the firm commitment that we have made as a group towards ensuring the highest standards of financial reporting. We believe that a transparent and active engagement with all stakeholders is a vital component to the continuing success of the Hayleys Group and we wish to commend our reporting teams across the organization for their tremendous efforts and superior delivery,” Hayleys Chairman and Chief Executive, Mohan Pandithage stated.

The group’s winning streak was further extended by Kelani Valley Plantations PLC which received the Silver Award in the Plantations category while Regnis PLC was presented with the Silver Award in Manufacturing (below Rs. 5 billion) followed by Hayleys Fabric PLC with the Bronze Award.
