Lanka Tiles PLC has won praise for its industrial relations in the workplace, winning a Gold Award in the medium scale manufacturing industry segment at the recently concluded “Excellence in Social Dialogue and Workplace Collaboration Awards 2017” held at the BMICH.
Organized by the Labour Department of Sri Lanka, the awards encourage a greater commitment into industrial labour relations aimed at developing a conducive working environment with the vision in creating a competitive edge amongst the local industries to compete in a global arena.
The company said in a media release that the selection criteria for the coveted awards included policies adopted by the organisation in support of social dialogue, performance-based employee appraisal mechanisms, employee welfare endeavours, social responsibility endeavours, the scale and the quality of awards won by the company and its’ employees, policies that ensure workplace rights, social security, reasonable gender equity in employment along with financial performance indicators, in all of which, Lanka Tiles PLC emerged as the winner.
“With operations spanning beyond four decades, we at Lanka Tiles have always kept abreast with trends and changes in the market catering to fast changing consumer needs. Hand in hand, we provide staff with rewarding career opportunities and performance-based remunerations. We continuously maintain a good dialogue with employees in order to ensure their commitment and engagement to achieve our strategic objectives. We have demonstrated our dedication to comply with national and international labour standards as well as to promote the concept of decent work by creating quality employment opportunities with fair compensation. By advocating world class HR strategies to secure and develop our employees, Lanka Tiles has always set a benchmark to industry peers,” said Mahendra Jayasekera, Managing Director – Lanka Tiles PLC in the media release.
Lanka Tiles produces a wide range of tiling concepts in a variety of colours, textures and sizes under the brand name ‘LANKATILES’. With a production capacity of 6.4 million square metres per year in a facility where design, materials and technology blend perfectly with aesthetics, the company delivers a total tile package to satisfy the requirements of designers, architects and homeowners.
